Although the field is still in it's infancy, there have already been
impressive breakthroughs demonstrating applications of DNA computers.
Two obvious advantages of DNA computing are it's massive parallelism
and extremely dense storage capacity. While the potential is great,
there are major hurdles that need to be overcome if DNA computing will
ever become feasible.

Beginning with Adleman's experiment to solve a 7 city travelling
salesperson problem (TSP) [1], researchers have continued to find new
methods and uses for DNA computing. Shapiro and Beninson have produced
a DNA automaton which detects cancerous cells and can release a drug
when an infected cell is found [2]. Although this experiment was only
performed in a test tube, the next goal is living cells. Eric Winfree
has developed a method for building “molecular tiles” which could
allow for complex self-assembling molecular structures [3]. This would
be a major advancement for areas like nanotechnology.

The sheer computational advantage of DNA computing is easy to see,
Adleman's TSP experiment ran at the equivalent of 100 Teraflops [3].
This processing speed comes from the parallelism inherent in DNA
computing, the speed is proportional to the number of DNA molecules
present. As a storage medium, DNA is very dense and capable of storing
massive amounts of data. As an example, 1μmol of DNA in 1L of water
contains 10^18 strands of DNA and each strand has a length of 40 which
can encode 10 bytes [4]. This means 1L of solution has the potential
to store around 8.7 exabytes. Some problems are still not easily
solvable even with seemingly boundless computing power and memory. If
Adleman's experiment was scaled up to 200 cities, it is estimated the
weight of the DNA required to represent all possible routes would be
more than the earth [3]. Another problem is obtaining the output of
the computations, it took Adleman a week to extract the solution to
his TSP experiment [3].

The power efficiency of DNA computers is also leaps ahead of current
technology. IBM's recent Blue Gene supercomputer which is considered
to be highly efficient runs at 1684 megaFLOPS/watt [5]. It was
estimated by Adleman that a DNA based computer could achieve 20
petaFLOPS/watt [4].

There are trade-offs for both DNA computers and current silicon-based
systems. As a general computing platform, the consensus is that DNA
computers will never directly replace silicon-based systems [3]. Amos
suggests we shouldn't be looking at the two as competitors but we
should be “looking outside the box for a niche for other applications”
[3]. Because DNA computers speak the language of living cells, they
can accomplish tasks that silicon systems will never be able to. It is
envisaged that DNA computers will act more as a complement, rather
than a replacement to classical computing [4].

1. Adleman, Leonard. Molecular computation of solutions to
combinatorial problems. Science, 266:1021-1024, 1994.
2. Shapiro, Ehud and Yaakov Benenson. Bringing DNA Computers to Life.
Scientific American. 2006.
3. Parker, Jack. Computing with DNA. European Molecular Biology
Organization Reports, 4:7-11, 2003.
4. Kari, Lila. DNA computing in vitro and in vivo, Future Generation
Computer Systems, 17:823-834, 2001.
5. Drew, Robb. Top500 Supercomputing List Reveals Computing Trends, 2010.
