How to subdivide this project?
    Four people write sections, fifth person writes intro/conclusion
     and ties stuff together.

    Intro/Motivation/Background:
        Currently a young and hot area of research.
        Summary of previous work and current state of the art at a high level
         of abstraction
    Possible sections:
        1. Theory of DNA Computation
            Technical details of implementing a Turing Machine or other 
             automata w/ DNA.
            Unlike w/ quantum computing, DNA computing offers no opportunity
             to move any problems from some complexity class to an easier class
             (e.g. problems that are NP-Complete on a classical computer are
             not in P on a DNA computer).
        2. How practical is DNA computation?
            Is it fast?
            Is it as cost-effective to streamline and mass manufacture as
             classical computers?
            How well does DNA memory work. Is it scalable?
        Can errors that occur during the DNA copying process be corrected,
         mitigated, or ignored because they are so infrequent?
        3. What could DNA computers offer in the future that regular computers
           cannot?
            Exploits massive parallelization.
            Possibility for ultra high density storage media.
            Low power consumption
        4. Possible applications to chemical circuitry for interacting with
           biological models. 
            Molecular robotics
            Nanoscale computing
            Cancer diagnosis
        5. Are there already simulators for DNA computation available? If
            there are, would it be feasible for us to run a demonstration on
            one? Would it be feasible for us to make such a simulator?
    Conclusion
    A summary of how useful we can expect DNA computing to be in the future

Resources
    Wiki
        DNA computing
        DNA code construction
http://www.nature.com/embor/journal/v4/n1/full/embor719.html
